Well, hey, Connexus, so good to be with you these last couple of weeks in this journey, this discovery experience on prayer.
And one of the reasons that I feel like I wanted to do this with your church and I did it with my church as well is prayer is one of those things I feel like we need to be a little more honest about.
Like when I talk to friends of mine who don't want to come to church or maybe we're in part of a church or grew up in or whatever and have left or maybe religion in general, one of the critiques they have is like, hey, I don't
I don't really feel like churches, pastors, priests, whatever, are honest enough.
And not like, because we're stealing money from the offering play or something, but more just like, we're not honest about how difficult the life of faith really is.
And some of the challenges that we have, and even as pastors, and so let me just confess, it's always good when the pastor's gonna confess the church, right?
People are like, hey, I'm tuning in.
I think people would come more to church if the pastor's just confessed, right?
That's how we should do confessional.
Anyways, digressing.
When it comes to prayer, I think we need to be a bit more honest about the struggle we have with it.
And let me just say this, you know, like I find it still in many ways difficult.
It's easier to plan, to think, to scheme, to distract, to be busy than it is to pray, you know?
I'll say things like, oh, I'll pray for you.
And then sometimes I don't.
When we believe in a God who is close and near us and wants to help us, but then
In the moment of crisis, I'm worrying or planning or strategizing or calling somebody else.
I'm not praying.
Uh, when my kids were, when they were little and they wake up sick in the middle of the night or something like that, we would take their temperature and go on web MD or maybe book a doctor's appointment or get some medicine and all of which is good.
But prayer, I wouldn't think to do right away.
It's kind of a last resort.
Sometimes if we're honest, when I talk to couples who are married, you know, we're, we're, we're actually naked.
having sex with each other in a kind of a vulnerable kind of way, but the idea of praying together feels like far too much vulnerability.
Like I wouldn't even know how to do that.
We just need to be honest about that.
That's strange, isn't it?
And that our default mode is to act or to think or to plan and not necessarily to pray.
I'm not saying this to make you feel guilty.
I'm just saying, hey, this is the honest reality for many of us.
Like if I said, hey, you know, come to church this Sunday night at 7 30 PM, because I've got 200 tickets to the Leaf game that are free.
I mean, we'd have a lineup at the door at 6 PM.
But if I'm like, hey, come at 7 30, because we're gonna have a three hour prayer night.
It's like, maybe 20 people would come, right?
That's just the reality of prayer.
It's hard.
It's challenging.
And so we have wanted to take these weeks
To do, as I said, when I put the word lab after the word prayer, okay, that changes it a bit.
That goes, hey, this is something we can learn about.
This is something we can try and fail and experiment and grow in.
If communication is the heartbeat, the lifeblood,
of any close relationship, right?
Any close relationship in your life.
The more you want it to grow, the more you need to communicate.
And the less you're communicating, the more that relationship is drifting apart or atrophying.
That's true in our relationship with God.
If you're here and you're exploring faith and you're thinking like, how would I even begin to, I didn't even know relationship with God was a possibility.
And that's great.
How does that even happen?
Well, prayer is one of the ways as we grow our ability to pray.
And not like in learning special words or special language.
but that we grow in our comfort level of being able to speak to God and to hear Him speak to us, that grows our sense of closeness and connection to Him.
And so we are treating these weeks and these Sundays as a prayer lab where I'm sharing with you the things that have been game changers for me in my prayer life to help me overcome some of the challenges, some of the struggles that has made
prayer a little bit more instinctive and intuitive and kind of a go-to strategy in my life rather than a last resort, a last ditch effort.
And so I wanna share those with you and not just talk about them but that each week we're actually practicing those.
And so if you've missed the last couple of weeks or you're just jumping in or this is your first time in church, you can go back online on the website and grab that or on the podcast and to try this at home, literally, we try it in church and then so you can try it at home.
Part of the problem, you know, when I think about prayer in my own life and even some of the ways that it was talked to me or even indirectly sort of communicated that it was sort of private, silent and non-relational.
You know, this idea of prayer was something that we do in a prayer closet or very private, like under my breath and quietly and to myself.
And of course, there's a beautiful nature of having this kind of very personal relationship with God.
But this is very private, separate from other people.
That it was silent kind of in our heads and non-relational as in like it's by ourselves.
And I think if that's what prayer is for us, that it's private and silent and non-relational, it's gonna be difficult.
Because I think if it's private, it just sort of stays with me.
And even if I say, hey, I'll pray for you, but then I'm gonna do that in private, I may not pray for you or I may forget about that or I'm just kind of, it's just staying with me in my world and it doesn't actually integrate with the rest of my life.
If it's silent, like if I'm always praying in my head,
I don't know about you, but I just get so distracted so easily.
It very easily goes from praying to thinking to scheming to mind wandering, sometimes then to falling asleep.
So the silent nature of it sometimes made it hard to just do regularly.
and the non-relational part of it, like kind of being on my own.
I'm an extrovert, so I actually like being with people.
And so kind of praying on my own is just sort of difficult.
And how do I know if I'm doing this right or where does this even go?
And again, it kind of leads to that feeling of sort of isolation and doesn't fit with the rest of my life.
And so today I want to give you a very different picture than prayer as sort of private, silent, non-relational of what prayer could be.
And the passage actually when I was
praying about, well, how would I communicate this?
What passage would I want to use in this?
The passage that came to mind very profoundly right away as I was praying, it's actually not a passage about prayer.
It's not a teaching about prayer, but I think it gives a picture, a feel of what prayer could and actually should be.
And I want you to kind of just feel what's going on in this text.
And then we're going to unpack it as like a picture of, oh, what could prayer like this look like?
in my life to help me maybe get out of the stuckness that sometimes come from thinking that prayer is primarily private and silent and non-relational.
This is a story in one of the biographies of Jesus in the biography of Mark, Mark chapter 10, verses 13 to 16.
One day some parents brought their children to Jesus so he could touch them and bless them.
But the disciples scolded the parents for bothering him.
When Jesus saw what was happening, he was angry with his disciples.
He said to them, let the children come to me.
Don't stop them.
For the kingdom of God belongs to those who are like these children.
I tell you the truth.
Anyone who doesn't receive the kingdom of God like a child will never enter it.
Then he took the children in his arms, placed his hands on their head and blessed them.
Now for our purposes today as we're talking about prayer,
Uh, it's not so much about what this passage is about, the details of like, you know, the mean disciples keeping away the cute children from nice Jesus, you know, and Jesus giving them a lecture.
I mean, there's stuff going on in that, but it's actually a, I think it's a picture of what prayer is and what it could be.
Cause here's, here's what I see in this text.
First I see people bringing someone they know, their children to like someone they love to Jesus.
They know Jesus, they're assuming that he's someone who would love the people they love and he's bringing them to them and it says for him to touch them or likely in a sense put his hand on their head and to bless them.
And the way this works is, and this is actually common, you'll find this in many different religions or system, people think, okay, that person is like a holy person.
In other words, they're close to God, so if I bring somebody that I love to them and they will bless them, that means
as they're close to them that that will bring my loved one close to God.
That's what's happening, right?
And he's a holy man.
And so his presence, being in his presence will be good for them and good for the people I love.
And so he's bringing them, they're bringing someone they love to Jesus.
And then it says for him to bless them.
That word blessing in this passage, if you look at the, this is an English translation from the original Greek manuscripts.
And the Greek word blessing is this word, katulogio.
And if I just separate the word cat from ulogio, you might recognize or as you see the word on screen, ulogio is where you get the word eulogy, right?
Which are what good words, often like spoken at a funeral or a celebration of life, but they're good words about the person or for the person.
And the word cat means through.
So blessing is through good words.
In other words, it's this idea of a spiritual person or someone that we believe is close to God, bringing the presence of God to this other person through good words.
Right?
So the parents are bringing their children to this holy man, Jesus.
They're not quite sure.
They don't know he's the son of God yet.
They just know he seems to be close to God.
We're going to bring our allotments to him.
And then through his good words to them, through his blessing, he's going to bring God close to them.
He's going to bring the goodness of God into their lives.
And what's so cool is maybe they were thinking, you know, because there were always crowds around Jesus.
Oh, he'll just go, oh, bless you, bless you, bless you.
You know, you just touch a whole bunch of these little kids on their heads and pat them and bless them and off they go.
But Jesus and the disciples like, shoo, shoo, shoo, he's busy.
He's too busy for this.
And Jesus says, no, no, he gets mad at the disciples saying, I'm not too busy for this.
And then it says, he took them in his arms, right?
One at a time, carried them.
And it since brought them close to him, put his hand on their head and spoke a word of blessing to each of them.
How cool is that, right?
He brought God's presence.
He brought them close to him, and then he brought God's presence to them through good words.
That's what blessing means.
So just step back for a moment.
Someone bringing someone they love to this person who's close to God.
Jesus, who actually is the son of God, taking them, each one, one at a time, in his arms, putting his hand on their head and speaking good words to them.
Words from God for them.
Friends.
I think this is an amazing picture of what prayer could be.
Here's what I think that is going on in this passage.
This is praying with not just for others, right?
This is not prayer that is private and silent and non-relational.
This is about praying with, not just for others.
And this is the game-changing practice that I want to share with you that we're going to lab out today.
When you pray with others, when you pray with a spouse, when you pray with one of your kids, when you pray with a friend or someone in your small group or someone at church, you're doing what is going on in this passive, what these parents are doing.
When you're praying with somebody that you love, you are, you're not Jesus.
Just to clear that up in case anyone had that.
You're not Jesus.
You're bringing them to Jesus through your prayers.
You are in a sense like putting one hand on God and one hand on them and blessing them.
You're carrying them into His presence through your words, bringing someone you love close to the one
who is God, who is the goodness of God, and through your words, they are hearing, in a sense, God's words to them, blessing them.
It's not you that has what they need.
It's Jesus who has what they need, but you're bringing them to him for him to bless them.
And when you speak those words, when we pray with someone, we're praying out loud for them, they get to actually hear through a human voice
the blessing and goodness of God.
They're experiencing the closeness of God when you put a hand on their shoulder or on their head or when someone you're close to, when you hug them as you're praying for them, just like Jesus actually carried these people in his arms.
They're feeling the closeness of God to them as you are praying with them.
You're showing them your love and your care for them and you're bringing God close to them.
This is the incredible gift of praying with.
not just for others.
And here's why.
It's good to pray for others.
Like when you're not with them, you can pray for anybody anywhere in the world this time.
You don't need to be with them to pray for them.
God hears your prayers and God is everywhere and he can bless them.
But listen, here's what I've found is what makes this a game changer of not just praying for others, but praying with them.
If you're just praying for them, okay?
When someone's, oh, I'm going to pray for someone at my work or I'm going to pray for someone in my family or someone says, Hey, and you talk to someone at church.
You're like, Oh, I'll pray for you.
Right?
You may never do it.
Okay.
Just be honest.
You don't have to put up your hand, but how many of us said, Oh, y'all pray for you.
And then we forget.
We never do it.
It's not cause we're mean.
We just forgot.
We're busy.
We're like, Oh, yeah, I'll pray for that.
And I forgot about that thing.
So I didn't pray for them.
And I see them the next time.
I'm like, Oh shoot.
I forgot about how did that job interview go?
I didn't pray for them.
I said I would pray for them, but I didn't cause I forgot cause that sometimes just happens.
When you're just praying for someone and not with them, they don't hear you bringing them to Jesus.
I mean, they hope you're doing it, but they don't actually hear you saying, God, I know you love this person.
They don't hear you bringing them to Jesus.
They don't actually audibly hear the good words that God has for them through your words.
I know we get all hung up and this is like, Oh, I don't have God's words.
I just have my words.
Yeah.
But God often uses human words to speak good words to others.
That's what we do.
We can bring the goodness of God.
But if you're just praying for them, but not with them, they don't hear those words.
They hope.
You know, and they know you did, but maybe they assume you did, but they didn't actually hear it.
And they don't get to feel the presence of God close to them in a tangible way through your presence.
But when you pray with them, they feel the closeness of God through your presence actually there.
Your flesh and blood presence reminds them that God is with them.
Your words to them can be like God's words to them.
They get to hear you
bringing them to Jesus.
And I think this is true about everyone in our lives.
Even people who don't even necessarily believe in God or aren't sure whether God is out there, they don't want to just know things about God.
They want to actually experience God.
People today more than ever are not looking for information about God, information about the divine, information about the supernatural.
They want an experience.
an experience of God's spirit, literally with them that they can hear and feel and sense with their bodies, not just their minds and some depersonalized truth statement about who God is.
They need to experience it.
And praying with people is one of the most profound ways for them to experience the presence of God with them.
You know what?
I talk to people all the time who say, I don't really feel close to my spouse.
Pray with them.
I'm telling you, as hard as it can be sometimes, ironically, it can actually cultivate a sense of closeness.
I know over time, in my marriage, that has helped us a lot in our sense of closeness to be praying with.
That's how I don't feel close to myself, pray together.
Or something like, yeah, I don't really feel close to some of the people in our church.
Start praying with each other more.
You actually grow in a sense of closeness together.
Start praying with.
This is a game-changing practice for people of faith.
Pray with your friends.
Like when you go to another friend's house, like say in the church or after church for dinner or something like that.
Yeah, okay, maybe pray for the meal.
But let's say you're talking about something and talking about maybe a health issue that's coming up or someone who's trying to have a child or maybe someone whose kid is going off to school or someone's got a new job or something, maybe thinking about buying a new house or you're in their new house before you leave.
Pray with each other.
Pray a blessing over the house.
Pray a blessing over their kids.
Pray with each other.
Pray for each other before you leave.
If you're both people who share faith, you believe that God is present.
You believe that God's here and believe that God's near.
Why aren't we praying more together?
This is an opportunity to grow in our closest to pray with, not just for.
And you know what, if you've been in kind of friendships in the church for a long time, and this has never been a part of your relationship together, the first person to bring it up is going to feel awkward.
I know it's just like, oh, we should pray.
And if you're like, oh, you're being all spiritual, it's going to feel weird.
That's OK. Just get over the hump.
Get over the weirdness.
This is an opportunity to become close together as you get to bring each other to the presence of God, to the one who really loves them.
They get to hear God's words to them through your words.
They get to feel the closeness of God to them as you put an arm around them or hand on their shoulder or if it's a child, just a hand.
in their head is you pray for them and bless them.
Pray with your kids.
Guys, this is not about how flowery your words are or whether, just make it normal.
Just like you would talk to a God like, you know, a little while, a couple of weeks ago, we talked about how God is a good father, loving and close to us and like an everyday father in our lives and like a close friend.
So just make it normal.
Your kids need to hear you talk to a God that you know.
As they hear you pray out loud, you are teaching them that they can pray out loud in their everyday language with their everyday words for their everyday needs.
This is something every night.
When they go to bed, you can pray over them, pray for it.
And just ask them, what's going on there?
As we ask our kids, even still as they're older, we pray for them before they go to bed.
Or now a couple are away at university.
I'll pray for them on the phone for something that they need.
This was something we just started to do over a long period of time.
If you've got young kids, start now.
Start before they can even understand what the words are.
You put your hand on their little head and they're a little infant.
Pray over them.
Make it a habit.
Pray with them, not just for them.
Pray with your spouse.
I promise you this will bring you closer together.
And I, it's not easy for the first five years of my marriage and I've been married 23 years.
Um, don't tell her it took me a while to get the number.
I know at 23 years, the first five years of our relationship, we didn't pray at all.
And it was primarily on me.
Like I felt awkward about it.
And she would sometimes want to bring it up and I'd be like, I don't, and I don't know why.
I don't know why it felt like such a vulnerable thing to pray in front of my wife.
Like I said, we're literally naked with each other at times, but somehow to be spiritually naked was too scary.
I don't know why that was.
And so we got to this point where like, you know what, we need to do this more.
So we made a commitment where like whoever brings up the idea of prayer, the other one will not say no, right?
And so in an early audit was her initiating that was like, we should pray.
And, and so.
If we'd be arguing about something for an hour, we'd pray about it for a minute.
You know, we're stressing about something or the something we need.
We'd talk, talk, talk, talk, and then we'd pray.
Now we pray more than we talk about it sometimes.
Or now we're like, hey, this is coming up.
Let's just go to prayer.
It's become more second nature for us to pray with each other, but it wasn't at first.
And so be courageous.
Bring it up.
I'm just giving you permission to talk about this on the way home.
And don't be awkward about the person.
Just embrace the awkwardness.
Say, let's just try this.
Let's just try one word, one sentence.
Let's try writing it out or something.
It is an act of vulnerability that will bring you closer together.
And in fact, like I said, I think the average person in your life and your school and your work on your team or your neighborhood or whatever, who doesn't know Jesus, maybe they're not a person of faith or you don't even know where they're at.
They are looking for a spiritual experience like an actual encounter with a living God.
And when you pray with them, not just for them,
They get to hear you talk to a God you actually know.
They get to realize, wait, you can have a relationship with God like that?
You can just say, hey God, or you can say like I said, you know, use the Lord's prayer.
Dad, you can have a closeness to God like that, that you're bringing them to someone you know and someone you know loves them.
And they get to feel the love of God through your words, through your voice.
I remember years ago, before I was a pastor and I worked in corporate life.
And I remember just feeling God challenging me about this.
People in my workplace knew that I was a person of faith or whatever.
And I remember one of the guys that I worked with had worked with for a while and he just shared something with me and I thought, okay, I was going to say, I'll pray for you.
And I'm like, hey, can I, can I pray for you for that?
And he's like, yeah, sure.
And I'm like, like now he's like,
Okay.
How do we do that?
So we went to one of the boardrooms that was empty and he said, how does this work?
I'm like, well, I don't know.
I said, I'm just going to pray out loud to God for you.
And you can just listen.
And if there's anything that I'm saying that you've kind of resonate with, you can under your breath just say, amen, like yes or yes, please God.
And so I just did, I just prayed with him.
And in that moment, he's hearing me talk to a God that I know and love, talk to a God that I know loves him.
And that through my words, this is blessing, right?
And my presence in his life, he gets to feel the presence of Jesus.
Guys, if you're a follower of Jesus, we have to take this seriously.
We actually have the Spirit of God in us so that when people are with us, they can feel like they're in the presence of God.
It's not about because we're so holy and we're so perfect and we have all the right words.
We're not Jesus, but we have the presence of Jesus with us.
And when we have the courage to just open our mouths and bring that person we love to someone
who loves them and uses our words.
They get to experience the presence of Jesus like Jesus, taking them in his arms like he did for those children and putting his hand on them and blessing them to pray with not just four.
A good part of this, can I just say this?
A good part of this is just courage, right?
We're so afraid of being rejected.
We're so afraid of being turned down.
We're afraid of not having the right words.
We're afraid of sounding like an idiot.
We're afraid of not knowing how to do it.
You know, when someone's got a health crisis going on in life, maybe we're afraid that like, well, what if I pray for them and God doesn't answer the prayer?
So I'd rather not pray for healing because maybe God won't heal.
We lack courage.
We just need courage to do it.
Just to get over this fear of rejection, fear of failure, fear of being letting out, fear of not knowing enough, fear of not doing it the right way.
And just to actually say, we need to do this.
You know what I love about this story that I shared with you about this blessing?
Any time we take the courage to pray with, not just for, to use our words to bless others, do you know who thinks it's a good idea?
Jesus.
Jesus never thinks it's a bad idea, right?
In fact, he scolds the disciples.
where for chasing people, he's like, no, I want to do this.
I love doing this.
So when you and I get the courage to actually pray with them, not just for, Jesus thinks it's a great idea.
He always thinks this is a good idea.
But maybe as you're doing this, and maybe if you're new to faith or maybe the idea of praying with is kind of scary or like, I don't even know where to begin.
I wanted to share with you a passage of one of the earliest
Jesus followers that he wrote in a letter that was actually a prayer.
And I want to share with you this prayer because it looks at first like, oh, these are really complicated words and I can never pray like that.
But actually we strip it down and going, actually that's so simple.
I could totally pray that with somebody.
It's a prayer from one of the letters of the apostle Paul is one of the most prolific writers kind of wrote basically half the New Testament.
And, you know, we can think, oh, I could never pray like him.
But I want you to listen to this prayer that he prayed for a group of people.
He wrote it in a letter for them.
And this was read out loud to them in the church.
So it's like he was praying with them.
It was his words.
But I want you, and then I'm going to unpack it and saying, this is actually something that we could totally pray in the same way.
If you're like, I wouldn't know how to pray with someone.
I wouldn't know what to say.
Here's what he says, Ephesians 3, 14 and 19.
When I think of all this,
everything that God has done.
I fall to my knees and I pray to the Father, the creator of everything in heaven and on earth.
And here's what he prays.
I pray that from his glorious unlimited resources, he will empower you with inner strength through his spirit.
Now don't get lost in the words.
We're going to unpack on how simple this really is.
Then Christ will make his home in your hearts as you trust in him.
Your roots will grow down into God's love and keep you strong.
And may you have the power
to understand, as all God's people should, how wide, how long, how high, how deep his love is.
May you experience the love of Christ, though it's too great to understand fully.
Then you will be made complete with all the fullness of life and power that comes from God.
Here's the thing.
This is probably one of the most brilliant theological minds of the first century.
all of the things that he knew about God and there's so many other things he wrote in so many other letters.
Do you know what he prays for this church?
We just stripped this down.
Just think this very brilliant mind.
What did he pray for this group of people?
That they would know how incredible God's love is.
Not just in their mind, but in their heart.
He's praying that they would experience God's love.
That because they know God's love for them, they would be able to grow strong and stable like a tree.
And he says,
You mean a lot to me.
I really want you to know this.
That's it.
That they would know God's love at an experiential level.
That they would grow strong and stable like a tree.
And I really want you to know this because I care about you.
That's it.
What a beautiful, simple prayer.
It's a simple idea that you would know God's love more.
Like you really need to know how much God loves you.
Not just as an idea, not just because the preacher told you, but that you would experience how much God loves you.
A simple image, a tree, he'd grow up strongly tree, simple idea, simple image and a sincere love.
He really genuinely loved the people he was praying with.
Guys, we can do this.
This is such goodness.
We can totally pray like this, a simple idea with maybe a simple image and a sincere love for people that we care that we care about, that we're praying for.
And so practically here's some things that might help you as you're thinking about how would I pray with praying with my spouse, praying with my kids, praying with someone at work, praying with a friend or whatever.
How would I do that?
Remember it's not about you.
Right?
Listen to what Eugene Peterson says.
Prayer is the way we work our way out of the comfortable but cramped world of self and into the spacious world of God.
Right?
It's not about me.
I just have the courage because I know they need God.
They need to know God loves them.
And I love them.
It's not about me.
I work my way out of the cramped and comfortable world of self into the spacious world of God through prayer.
It's not about you.
It's about God and the other person.
Don't worry about how magical your words are or whatever.
God loves them.
You just have the courage to be close to them and actually speak out loud your prayer.
Say it out loud.
Trust God to give you words, his life and his power and his love.
Like, when in doubt, just pray good words, right?
That's what a blessing is.
Just good words.
God's love, God's strength, God's presence, God's power.
Just, just when in doubt, pray good words.
Pray blessing over them.
Keep it short.
Doesn't need to be long, right?
Just simple prayer, one line.
As you're praying, pay attention.
There's a picture that comes to mind.
Could be a picture from nature.
It could be a picture of like,
you know, like your kid, like jumping off the stairs into your arms is a picture of trust.
Oh, I want to pray.
I want to pray you'll be able to trust God, like a child trust God.
Oh, a tree.
I pray that you'd be strong and vibrant and alive or, you know, whatever, or like rain brings new, you know, in the seasons we watch as snow comes or rain or whatever.
That can be a picture.
We just pray over someone.
Be close to them appropriately, right?
If it's a spouse or a girlfriend or a boyfriend or whatever, you can put your arm around there or a child.
You can put your hand on their head or you could hold their hand.
If it's someone you don't know well, if it's someone I don't know well or close, I'll just say, hey, can I put my hand in your shoulder?
Or I just, I'm just close to them.
I just sit next to them.
If you can't be in person, pray with them over the phone.
Praying over the phone is an awesome thing.
Someone's calling you, I'm stressed about this, I have this.
Oh, before we go, can I just pray for you quickly, right?
Just talk, don't just talk about it.
Pray with them.
And if that can't work, if you can't, if you can't call them, if you can't be with them, write it out and hit send saying, Hey, I was thinking about you today.
I know you got that job interview coming up or I know, you know, you're going to visit your mom today or I know, um, you know, you guys are going to the doctor.
Here's what I'm praying.
Write it.
Lord, blah, blah, blah, two sentences.
Just send it to them.
Keep it simple.
Keep it brief.
Make it just a good word.
So there's just some, some kind of, um, tips for how to do that.
I thought we were going to try it today in church.
Some of you are running for the dirt.
Let me show you how and you don't have to do this.
I'll give you lots of outs, lots of off ramps.
But I just thought, man, we should try this out in a church.
The opportunity to pray with, not just for each other.
And I'm going to put the words up on the screen.
I'm going to show you.
I mean, it's literally going to give you words.
And I'm going to say, don't pray any more than just this so that we're all kind of using the same words.
And then I'll give you an opportunity.
If you don't want to do this, what you can do instead.
Okay, but here's what we would pray.
And just for the person next to you, you don't have to walk away, and if you know someone great, if you don't know them, you just say, what's your name?
And you're just going to pray, oh, your name's VJ.
Okay.
I'm just going to pray this.
Jesus, I bring VJ to you today.
Thank you that you love him.
Help my words to be your words to him today.
That's it, right?
And then just wait, wait and listen for what good word God might want to say, or maybe it's a picture.
Just wait, give yourself 20 seconds and they're not going to think it's awkward because I told you, we're waiting.
Kind of brings you help my words be your words.
And just wait for 20 seconds for a word or a picture or a phrase or maybe it's a verse or something that you read yesterday.
Once you hear something, just pray it in your own words as simply as possible.
It could just, like if it was a, let's say it was a picture of a tree.
Like I said, like a picture of a kid jumping off the stairs into their father's arms or picture of running water.
And you're like, oh, I just pray that God, you know, that you'll be present in their life like a, like a quench of thirst that they have or maybe a sunrise or the God that you'd bring light.
Now, you know, if they're feeling alone or in a cold or dark place or whatever, whatever it is, right?
Just pray.
Whatever comes to mind, if you don't hear anything, which sometimes I don't, sometimes I'm waiting and I don't hear a word, I don't hear a verse, just simply pray this.
God, help them to know how much you really do love them, right?
This is what Paul prayed in that prayer I showed you.
Pray that you show them how much you really do love them.
Give them your strength in the areas of their life where they feel weak or empty.
You're just gonna use these exact words.
Jesus, help them feel your presence close to them as close as we are right now.
Amen.
That's it.
You just pray and that'll be up there on the screen for you.
And in a moment, just for the person that's next to you.
And just use these words.
That's what we're going to do.
So you don't have to think up extra ones.
If you're new here,
Um, or maybe you just don't feel comfortable participating.
This is totally cool.
That's not a problem at all.
If someone asks you, oh, do you want to pray?
You can just say this, I'm going to pray on my own today.
That's your out say you just gonna, I'm just going to pray on my own today.
Um, and that's no problem.
No judgment.
We don't want to force anyone to do this, but we want to give you the opportunity if you like to, to be prayed for to pray with each other.
But if you don't just say, I'm going to pray on my own today and
If you do, if you're praying on your own, just use these words that are up on the screen to write a text to someone in your life who's not here that you want to pray with them even just right now digitally.
You can do that.
And so I'm going to give you a moment just to do that together and that'll be up there on the screen for you.
And we'll take like just two minutes to do that.
All right, well, hopefully that wasn't a terrifyingly weird experience for you, but just a chance to actually go, oh, I can actually hear God.
Oh, I got a picture, Earl.
I could use these words, like literally that prayer that someone would know God's love and that they would be able to be strong and stable and that they would feel Jesus' presence with them.
Man, that is a good thing.
Let me pray that so many, I want people to pray that for me.
Every day I need to know that.
So I just want to encourage you as you leave today,
Who's someone in your life that you could start praying with and not just for?
Maybe it is a spouse.
Maybe in your marriage, you want to jumpstart that.
And if you're newly married, this is a great place to start or you're dating, you're engaged, or even if it's been 20, 30 years and you've never done it before, just have the awkward conversation and jumpstart that.
Maybe it's one of your kids, no matter how old they are and start praying with them.
Maybe it's someone at work, like I tried with my colleague for the first time or a friend who's going through a rough time or
someone that you think, maybe a family member, you're like, you know what?
I think I could do this.
I think they would be open to that.
When you try and step out to do that, and inevitably you feel a little bit of fear, fear of rejection, fear of looking stupid, fear of not having the right words, fear of it not going well, fear of God not answering the prayer.
Remember this.
Every time we take the step to pray with, not just for, Jesus thinks it's a really good
idea.
Let me pray with you now as we close.
Jesus, I just prayed that same prayer over everyone in this room, everyone listening, no matter where they are, what side are in their car or in their bed or wherever they're listening right now, that they would know how much you love them, not just in their heads, but in their hearts and their whole beings.
And that love would give them a stability and a security
like roots of a big tree that would allow them to be strong and to withstand winds and storms.
And that they would know that they are valued and loved by you and by the people that you have put in their lives.
We pray this in your name, Jesus.